In this lesson, I'm going to teach you about the Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud.
Easy, too easy two is one of the most important services on IWC.
It's been around a long time, and it also is used by many other high level services, as you'll see
as we go through the course.
Now, it is a way that we can run virtual servers in the cloud.
So in the IWC data center, there are host servers and all nice house servers we can run are two instances.
And this is using server virtualization.
So just as we saw in the last lesson, that means we've got a pool of physical hardware.
And then on top of it, we can then run our own virtual instances.
Now the ETC hosts are managed by IWC, and then you manage the easy to instance that you run on top
of the IWC host servers.
So the easy to instance is essentially a virtual server, and it has a certain amount of CPU and RAM
and storage and network capability assigned to it.
And it then has an operating system.
The operating systems can be Windows or Linux or even Mac OS, which is quite new.
And then on top of that, you install your applications and run whatever it is.
You want to run on your virtual server and you have full Skype to do whatever you want with your virtual
server.
When we launch our instances, we have to choose something called an instance type.
And this gives us different combinations of CPU and memory and storage and networking.
As I mentioned, the easy two instances themselves can run different operating systems.
And at the moment, you can run Windows and Linux and Mac OS.
So how do we launch an instance?
Well, we can simply go into the IWC management console and choose to launch an easy to instance.
When we do that, we have to select an instance type.
And here's a few examples there's hundreds of options, but these are some examples of different hardware
profiles that you would be able to choose.
And this will also dictate the cost.
It will dictate the performance and also the cost.
Then we have to choose something called an Amazon machine image.
And am I the am-I is essentially an image that contains the operating system and any configuration settings.
So it's the configuration, for the instance.
So we're choosing the hardware profile and then we're choosing the operating system and any configurations
that we want to apply to.
Our instance and am-I is actually created from something called an EBS snapshot, and that is a point
in time back up of an instance.
So that means you can create an instance, configure it a certain way, create a snapshot, create an
ally from the snapshot and then create a new instance the same as the one that you customized yourself.
And we'll see how to do that as well later in the course.
So you can create a customized am-I and then use that to deploy your own customized profiles.
So what are the benefits of easy to do?
Well, it gives you elastic computing.
You can launch hundreds or thousands of EC2 instances within a matter of minutes.
You've got complete control.
So the easy two instances, you have full administrative or root access to them.
That means you can configure them however you want.
You have that full scope of management.
It's flexible.
You get a choice of different instance types, operating systems and also software packages that can
come pre-installed.
It's very reliable.
It offers very high levels of availability, and the instances can be rapidly commissioned and replaced.
It's also secure.
It's fully integrated with Amazon VPC and security features.
And lastly, it's inexpensive, it's fairly low cost and you only pay for what you use.
So that's a great use case in terms of the financials of using EC2 compared to owning your own infrastructure.
So that's it for the ferry.
In the next lesson, we're going to go into the console and launch an in instance.